# mnist_hls
 Lenet for MNIST handwritten digit recognition using Vivado hls tool.
* Accuracy : 97.5938% (8-bit Mode).
* Speed : 71.43 FPS (100MHz, Zedboard)

## requirement
* Vivado hls 2019.2
* petalinux 2019.2 (optional)
* Vitis 2019.2
* python 3+

## usage
* Download MNIST dataset from [MNIST](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/) and cpoy the dataset to '~/Vivado_hls/MNIST_DATA/'

* build hls project
```
# When you are in the project root directory
cd Vivado_hls
vivado_hls -f script.tcl
```

* Generate 'tanh' table (default: ap_fixed<8,3>)
```
# When you are in the project root directory
cd Vivado_hls/tools
python ./tanh_table.py
```

* build vivado project
```
# When you are in the project root directory
cd Vivado
vivado -source source/tcl
```

* Generate output product && export hardware.

* Open Vitis && create platform from *.xsa generated by vivado.

* Create an application project based on the 'hello world' template.

* Use this file './Vitis/helloworld.c' replace the original file and add file './Vitis/mnist_data.h'.

* Run and see the results

## DART/FRED Compatibility

This design has been adapted to work with DART and FRED tools designed by [Retis lab](retis.sssup.it/) in Scuola Sant'anna, Pisa.

In the 'Vivado_hls/script.tcl' file change `set use_fred 1` to use the design with FRED interface or set it to `set use_fred 0` to use the original interface based on AXI streaming.

This design has several debug features, like saving the internal CNN signals into files for further comparisons. Check the 'Vivado_hls/script.tcl' file to see how to enable the following debug modes:

 * FRED_REF_DATA: saves data from the FRED interface into file;
 * COMP_DATA: compares data from the FRED based design against data from the reference design. Ypu have to run the reference design first to generate the reference file;
 * REF_DATA: saves the data from the reference AXIS-based design;
 * REF_OUT_DATA: similar to the previous one, but it saves only the outputs of the AXIS-based design.


## TODO
* Simplify lookup table of 'tanh'.
* Complete PS design based on embedded linux.
* Batch size != 1 is not working. See the parameter  `image_Batch` in the 'Vivado_hls/include/parameters.h'

## Authors

* Orignal design by FloyedShen;
* Adaptation to DART/FRED by Alexandre Amory,Scuola Sant'anna, Pisa.


